Minority report ; The Korea discount
Anonymous . Anonymous.
ProQuest document link

ABSTRACT
It is sometimes asserted that low South Korean equity valuations stem from the threat of instability in North Korea. That
explanation looked a lot less convincing after the death of Kim Jong Il in December, when the KOSPI 200 index of leading
shares and the won, the South Korean currency, both quickly shrugged off the news. So what is the source of the Korea
discount, which means that the KOSPI has a forward price-to-earnings ratio of under ten, below most other Asian
stockmarkets? There are a few possibilities.

FULL TEXT
Corporate governance explains South Korea's low stockmarket ratings
IT IS sometimes asserted that low South Korean equity valuations stem from the threat of instability in North Korea. That
explanation looked a lot less convincing after the death of Kim Jong Il in December, when the KOSPI 200 index of leading
shares and the won, the South Korean currency, both quickly shrugged off the news.
So what is the source of the "Korea discount", which means that the KOSPI has a forward price-to-earnings ratio of under
ten, below most other Asian stockmarkets (see chart on next page)? There are a few possibilities. The national economic
model is still built on exports, often in highly cyclical industries such as shipbuilding. The capital structure of South Korean
firms has historically been debt-heavy.
But the prime cause of the discount is more likely to be poor corporate governance at the family-run chaebol
conglomerates that dominate the economy. Nefarious schemes to pass on control to sons, avoid taxes and exploit
company assets for the benefit of family members are widely discussed in private. They are also lambasted abroad: a 2010
survey by CLSA, a broker, placed the country third-from-bottom in Asia on governance, ahead of only Indonesia and the
Philippines.
The issue is now also getting more of an airing at home. A recent report by Tongyang Securities, a broker, drew an explicit
link between Korea's low equity valuations and the practices of "tunnelling" and "propping", which benefit insiders at the
expense of smaller investors.
Tunnelling is the awarding of contracts to firms owned by family members. Chaebol heads typically own only a small
portion of their firms, but are able to maintain control through complex cross-holdings; tunnelling offers a means of
exploiting that control to get richer, quicker. In 2007, for instance, the Fair Trade Commission, an official watchdog, fined
Hyundai Motor for, among other things, giving 1.3 trillion won ($1.4 billion) of business to Glovis, a firm owned by the son of
Hyundai's chairman--without any tendering.
Propping is similar to tunnelling, and means that unviable units get financial support from sister companies. But it is no less
damaging to small investors. If company insiders are able to misuse shareholders' funds at will, would-be investors will
reduce their expectations of future cash flows and thus attach lower valuations to stocks.
Other allegations are even more serious. On February 3rd Hanwha Group announced in a regulatory filing that its chairman,
Kim Seung-yeon, was among several officials being investigated for alleged embezzlement. Chey Tae-won, the chairman of
SK Group, was indicted in January over the disappearance of 99 billion won from company coffers, as part of a scheme
allegedly planned by his brother to cover futures-trading losses. Mr Chey denies the charges. The Federation of Korean
Industries, a chaebol pressure group, has urged prosecutors to go easy on Mr Chey. They say that punishing him would
harm "entrepreneurial spirit".
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM

Page 1 of 3

Mr Chey has had previous scrapes, having been convicted of a billion-dollar accounting fraud in 2003. He eventually
received a full pardon from the president and was also chosen to represent the nation during the 2010 G20 summit, leading
a meeting of international chief executives. Lee Kun-hee, the chairman of Samsung, received a similar pardon in 2009,
having been found guilty of tax evasion, and was picked to front South Korea's bid for the 2018 Winter Olympics. Yujeon
mujwai, mujeon yujwai--an old expression meaning "money = innocence, no money = guilt"--is enjoying a resurgence in
popularity.
The irony is that the largest chaebol are models of efficient production and are enjoying a golden period. Their success, say
proponents, vindicates the family-run approach to business. Their ownership structure means they have no need to
appease short-termist investors or to meet quarterly earnings targets; instead, they can invest for the long run. Smaller
shareholders have reason to feel less thrilled.

DETAILS
Subject:

International; Corporate governance; Business conditions; Stockholders; Price earnings
ratio; Securities markets; Scandals

Business indexing term:

Subject: Corporate governance Business conditions Stockholders Price earnings ratio
Securities markets

Classification:

9179: Asia & the Pacific; 8130: Investment services; 3400: Investment analysis & personal
finance; 2110: Boards of directors

Publication title:

The Economist; London

Volume:

402

Issue:

8771

Pages:

74-75

Publication year:

2012

Publication date:

Feb 11, 2012

Section:

Finance

Publisher:

The Economist Intelligence Unit N.A., Incorporated

Place of publication:

London

Country of publication:

United Kingdom

Publication subject:

Business And Economics--Economic Systems And Theories, Economic History, Business
And Economics--Economic Situation And Conditions

ISSN:

00130613

e-ISSN:

14768860

PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM

Page 2 of 3

CODEN:

ECSTA3

Source type:

Magazine

Language of publication:

English

Document type:

General Information

Document feature:

Charts

ProQuest document ID:

921165044

Document URL:

https://login.ezproxy.princeton.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/magazines/min
ority-report-korea-discount/docview/921165044/se-2?accountid=13314

Copyright:

(Copyright 2012 The Economist Newspaper Ltd. All rights reserved.)

Last updated:

2026-02-11

Database:

ProQuest Central

LINKS
Linking Service

Database copyright  2026 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions

Contact ProQuest

PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM

Page 3 of 3

