sustainability
Article

The Effects of Shareholding of the National Pension Fund on
Environmental, Social, Governance, and Financial Performance:
Evidence from the Korean Manufacturing Industry
Jootae Kim 1 , Sungjin Son 1, *
1
2

*

Citation: Kim, J.; Son, S.; Jin, I. The
Effects of Shareholding of the

and Ick Jin 2
College of Business and Economics, Dankook University, Yongin 16890, Korea
Department of Economic Analysis, National Assembly Budget Office, Seoul 07233, Korea
Correspondence: phdssj@dankook.ac.kr

Abstract: With the growing number of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) problems,
many companies have begun to implement more sustainable business practices. In the midst of this
change, institutional shareholders declare and adopt socially responsible investment procedures,
which is a way of engaging in investor activism. Despite the growing interest in investor activism
following the introduction of the stewardship code, little attention has been paid to how socially
responsible investment practices of institutional investors affect the non-financial value of the pillars
of environmental, social, and governance as well as financial performance, including short-term
accounting (ROE, ROA) and long-term market performance (Tobin q). The current study examines
whether the national pension fund (NPF), the world’s third-largest Korean pension fund, can increase
the ESG performance of investee firms in addition to accounting and market performance through
institutional investors’ shareholding. This study, by applying path analysis, attempts to explore the
relationship between the NPF’s socially responsible investing, ESG, and the financial performance
of the investee firms. This research offers evidence that ESG performance acts as a moderator or a
mediator between NPF’s shareholding and financial performance.

National Pension Fund on
Environmental, Social, Governance,
and Financial Performance: Evidence

Keywords: ESG; sustainability; stewardship code; investor activism; fiduciary duty; financial
performance

from the Korean Manufacturing
Industry. Sustainability 2022, 14,
11788. https://doi.org/10.3390/
su141811788

1. Introduction

Academic Editor: Donato Morea

Sustainable development is a method of arranging an organization or society to ensure
human civilization’s long-term survival, and promoting it responsibly with the advent of
the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) era requires considering both present
and future imperatives, such as “green practice”, “social, legal, and ethical principles”,
“improvement of corporate governance”, in addition to economic growth.(Sustainable
development, as defined by the Brundtland Report in 1987 by the World Commission on
Environment and Development, is the concept that human civilizations must continue
and satisfy their requirements without harming future generations’ ability to meet their
own needs. Since then, many scholars have attempted to define the concept of sustainable
development, constantly noting that the concept of the World Commission on sustainable
development is ambiguous and elusive [1,2], but there is no clear-cut and consistent perspective yet [3]. Manioudis and Meramveliotakis (2022) [3] investigating notion and trend
of sustainable development through the lens of Smith’s, Mill’s and Marx’s stage theories
of development argued that sustainability should be understood and defined in terms
of historical and transhistorical frameworks, as well as contextual and situational events.
In this vein, sustainable development may be characterized as a sustainable innovation
movement that prioritizes non-financial values as well as economic growth by considering SDGs, circular economies, and ESG aspects.) It has recently been described by UN
sustainable development goals (SDGs) and the circular economy, and also suggests a shift

Received: 7 August 2022
Accepted: 15 September 2022
Published: 19 September 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affiliations.

Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788. https://doi.org/10.3390/su141811788

https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

2 of 17

away from a concentration on environmental issues and toward the inclusion of larger
socio-economic challenges (The SDGs are the United Nations (UN) global priorities and
aspirations to achieve sustainable economic growth by 2030. They were adopted by the UN
General Assembly in 2015 with aim of “stimulating action in areas of critical importance
for humanity and the planet over the next 15 years” ([4], p. 3). Since the 70th UN General
Assembly adopted the SDGs in 2015 under the slogan “Leave no one behind”, the notion
of sustainable development has become increasingly visible. The SDGs propose 17 broad
targets and 169 specific goals for humankind’s future development in five areas: human,
earth, prosperity, peace, and partnership. Another popular concept is the circular economy,
which is a model of production and consumption that involves sharing, reusing, repairing,
refurbishing, and recycling to decouple growth from the danger of resource depletion [3,5].
Along with the SDGs and circular economy, corporate and investor social responsibility has
increased in importance, and many financial institutions all over the world are using ESG
information to help them achieve their commitments. Since the United Kingdom made the
disclosure of ESG factors mandatory in 2000, many other nations have adopted a similar
regulatory framework, placing institutional investors, such as pensions or mutual funds,
investment banks, insurance companies, and unit trusts, at the forefront [6].
Another term used in the sustainability discourse is stewardship. According to the
UK’s Financial Reporting Council (FRC), “stewardship aims to promote the long-term
success of companies in such a way that the ultimate providers of capital also prosper, and
effective stewardship benefits companies, investors, and the economy as a whole” ([7],
p. 10). Accounting scandals in Enron or WorldCom have prompted some institutional
investors to consider fiduciary obligations when investing in investees [8–10]. The role of
institutional investors in the era of sustainable development is growing in importance.
As a consequence of the rising pressure on transparency, responsibility, and sustainability, businesses are now obliged to take into consideration the effects of ESG issues in
their operations. ESG is a trend for sustainable management that concurrently emphasizes
the non-financial value in the area of “E”, “S”, and “G”, as well as financial benefits. The
three pillars of ESG disclosed by international standards have materialized as a visible
result of these pressures and movements [11], and amid the pressure, institutional investor
activism has gained significant attention in Korea and around the world. In Korea, the
national pension fund (NPF) implemented a stewardship code, which includes guidelines
for exercising shareholder rights, and prepared plans for fiduciary responsibility activities
in 2019 [6].
In this situation, companies should run their operations in a way that benefits all
internal and external stakeholders, including traditional owners, workers, and consumers
along with their current local and global communities [12]. Moreover, institutional investors
have a responsibility to act as stewards of a company’s successful ESG initiatives. With
the implementation of the stewardship code, the role of institutional investors has become
more important, and their influence in the capital market is gradually increasing. The
more stewardship responsibility is underscored, the more the competence of institutional
investors to serve as effective watchdogs become more apparent.
In this paper, we investigate whether NPF, an institutional investor in Korea, should
act as a steward of investee firms (agency theory), shareholders (shareholder theory), and
society (stakeholder capitalism). Our research question is whether institutional investors
encourage firms to improve their ESG and financial performance.
Contemporary researchers in this field have put their efforts into investigating the
association between institutional investor’s activism and financial performance [13–15],
or institutional investor’s activism and ESG performance [12,16–19], or ESG performance
and financial performance [20–24]. The general argument is whether institutional investor
activism indeed improves the ESG performance of investee firms and, as a result, benefits
their shareholders [6,14,15,25]. To the arguments, many positive pieces of evidence showing
the relationship between ESG performance, which emerged from corporate social responsibility (CSR), and financial performance have been found in this area [20–22,24,26,27].

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

3 of 17

Negative pieces of evidence on institutional investor activism, however, exist simultaneously [12,19,22,24,28]. The major argument debated in these papers is that institutional
investor activism is not beneficial to shareholders, stakeholders, and society. This is because
the primary goal of an institutional investor is maximizing their value for shareholders as
an agency rather than making a socially responsible investment [10,29]. Even though institutional investors apply a stewardship code as part of their investor activism, they cannot
make a socially responsible investment at the expense of their interests, and thus society or
stakeholders should not demand such moral activism from institutional investors. [6,10].
Likewise, previous research in this field has been inconsistent.
With a stronger emphasis on the stewardship code and ESG, more research is still
needed to demonstrate the impact of institutional investors’ activism on ESG and financial
performance. Although the relationship between “institutional investor’s activism and
financial performance”, “institutional investor’s activism and ESG performance”, and
“ESG performance and financial performance” are incoherent, positive pieces of evidence
are more dominant [6,15–19,21–23,25,26]. Moreover, they persistently question whether
firms are capable of operating and differentiating their business in sustainable and socially
responsible ways. Disclosures of ESG can present firms with a market premium, and these
can be of greater interest to institutional investors who search for a high accounting and
market value [16–18]. Besides, valuable ESG data allow institutional investors to better
predict a firm’s accounting and market operation [30].
In 2019, the stewardship code was introduced in Korea by NPF (i.e., by adopting
“Principles on Trusteeship Responsibility” in 2019) and began its role as a steward [31].
Nevertheless, little interest is shown in how NPF’s socially responsible investment affects
the investee firms’ ESG and financial performance as institutional investors. With this
backdrop in mind, the current paper concentrates on the institutional investor’s activism,
ESG performance of investee firms, and financial performance following the ongoing
consideration of the stewardship code and socially responsible investing. This study
explores whether NPF should serve primarily as a steward for investee companies and if
its activism may improve the investee firm’s performance on environmental, social, and
governance pillars, which in turn improves financial performance. Hence, we raise research
questions about whether ESG performance can act as a mediator or moderator. Given the
positive relationship demonstrated in previous studies examining the relationship between
investor activism and ESG performance or financial performance, causality or an interaction
impact between the variables is predicted. In other words, the effect of NPF shareholding
on financial performance can be indirectly related to the improvement of ESG performance.
In addition, ESG performance can enhance the impact of NPF shareholding on financial
performance. The current study not only allows us to diagnose the practice of institutional
investors’ socially responsible investing and the degree of firms’ ESG participation in Korea
but also aids understandings of the relationship between the variables based on stakeholder
theory and the slack resource hypothesis.
The remainder of this study is structured as follows: We analyze the literature, create
hypotheses, and establish a research framework in the Theory and Hypotheses section.
The Research Design section describes the data, sample, and measurement of variables.
The descriptive information, the correlation matrix, and the findings and discussion are all
explained in the Research and Discussion section. Finally, the Conclusion offers additional
discussion, implications, and limitations.
2. Theory and Hypotheses
2.1. Stewardship Code and Socially Responsible Investment in Korea
The scandals of Enron or WorldCom sparked inevitable discussions about corporate
governance among shareholders, management, and public policymakers. These incidents
enforced some institutional investors-pension or mutual funds, investment banks, insurance companies, unit trusts, etc., to consider fiduciary duty when investing in investee
firms [8–10]. Fiduciary duty bestows optimistic effects on investors to integrate ESG issues

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

4 of 17

into their investment processes, and the normalization of institutional investors’ fiduciary
duty is the process of embodying institutional investors’ fiduciary obligation through
certain norms such as the stewardship code [9,10].
Over recent decades, the emphasis on the stewardship code in global society has
boosted the interest in a steward’s role in international financial markets. The stewardship
code requires institutional investors to be transparent about their investment processes,
engage with investee companies, and vote at shareholders’ meetings [9,10,14,15,25]. The
UK Financial Reporting Council first introduced it in 2010 in an effort to help the UK
recover from the financial crisis of 2008. Now, similar documents have been issued by
many other countries [6,9,32].
The majority of the listed firms’ shares have now undergone changes with greater
interest in the steward’s role in the global economic market. For example, it tended to be
directly owned by individuals (Chaebol owners in the case of Korea), but now it is held
by large institutions such as pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds, and unit
trusts [8–10]. Overall, institutional investors such as Blackrock have a large concentration
of share ownership in a global society [33], and NPF has a considerable stake in investee
firms in Korea [31].
Institutional investors are becoming more important in the global economy, and if
they actively take the three pillars of environment, society, and governance into account
when making investment decisions, they can strengthen corporate social responsibility
and maintain sustainable development. [15,16,18,19,21,22,25]. Here, the term “socially
responsible investment” refers to an investment considering environmental, social, and
governance pillars in addition to the financial performance of investee companies [34,35].
Not much attention was paid to institutional investors’ fiduciary duty in Korea until the merger between Samsung C&T and Cheil Industries in 2015. There was a great
controversy in Korean society as to whether or not it was desirable for NPF—the largest
shareholder of Samsung C&T—to exercise its voting rights on the merger decision made
between Samsung C&T and Cheil Industries. In the process, the issue of the fiduciary
duty of institutional investors related to sound corporate governance emerged as a major
concern, and all these occurrences triggered NPF to adopt a stewardship code.
NPF was founded in 1986 with the objective of providing the general public with sustainable pension and welfare services, and in 2016 it introduced the stewardship code ([31]).
By passing related laws (the “National Pension Act” in 2015) and guidelines (the “Principles on Trusteeship Responsibility” in 2019) as a follow-up measure, the standard of
the Korean-style stewardship code was developed. With the announcement of a strategy
to advance responsible investing in 2019, NPF added sustainability to the existing five
fund management principles of stability, liquidity, profitability, publicity, and operational
independence [6,31]. Since 2019, NPF has continuously supported shareholder rights. All
of these initiatives served as the foundation for NPF’s responsible investment strategy.
2.2. NPF’s Socially Responsible Investment, ESG Performance, and Financial Performance
Shareholder participation in corporate governance and institutional investor activism
are now hot issues, not only in Korea but also around the world. The evolvement of the
stewardship code from fiduciary duty strongly requires institutional investors to reflect
sustainability in environmental, social, and governance for the long-term benefits of investee firms. This means that when making investment decisions, they should consider
non-financial factors such as ESG elements and exercise shareholder rights while analyzing
the effects of ESG on market/economic results.
As part of fiduciary duty and institutional investor activism, the stewardship code
is designed to generate institutional investors as active monitors, and the dynamic institutional investor monitoring can enhance the corporate value of investees companies.
Furthermore, socially responsible investments of institutional investors regarding the environment, social, and governance aspects also enable improvements in the ESG performance
of investee firms. Many studies have examined how firms’ socially responsible investments

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

5 of 17

affect corporate financial performance [20–22,24,26,27,36], whereas only a few studies have
looked into how institutional investors’ socially responsible investments affect financial
performance [15,25,28].
Previous research studying the relationship between institutional investor activism,
ESG performance, and financial performance cascaded into three areas: (i) the relationship
between institutional investor activism and financial performance, (ii) the relationship
between institutional investor activism and ESG performance, and/or (iii) the relationship
between ESG performance and financial performance.
First, the exploratory discussion regarding whether institutional investor activism
can benefit firms and shareholders is now progressing, and the relationship is not yet
inconsistent. The positive pieces of evidence, for instance, are as follows. Becht et al.
(2009) [13] reported that “well-focused engagements by an activist fund implemented
shareholder activism, and can result in considerable public returns to outside shareholders”. Buchanan et al. (2012) [14] suggested that “shareholders may have an influence
on business performance but the mechanisms via which shareholders are empowered
are significant”. Mehrani et al. (2017) [25] claimed that “the more institutional investors
actively participate, the higher the earning quality of investee companies is guaranteed”.
Similarly, Farooqi et al. (2017) [15] stated that “active institutional investors have a stronger
positive impact on company credit score than passive ones”. Moreover, negative pieces of
evidence also existed. For example, Gillan and Starks (2007) [28] declared, “institutional
investor activism reduces the business value by making it harder for managers to pursue
long-term oriented goals”.
Second, there are not many remarkable proofs regarding the relationship between
institutional investor activism and ESG performance since the exploration effect of the
activism on ESG performance has recently begun. Several points must be addressed,
however, if it expands into the CSR literature. For example, Routledge (2020) [19] presented
a negative association between institutional investors’ shareholding levels and discretionary
accruals and stated that “institutional investors’ socially responsible investing can act
as an effective governance structure”. Kim and An (2018) [17] investigated how NPF’s
shareholding and CSR activities related to one another and claimed that “firms which
have dominant shareholders with 5% or more ownership rates significantly expanded their
CSR activities than those with less ownership rate”. Nurleni et al. (2018) [18] inspected
the association between ownership structure, consisting of managerial and institutional
ownership, and CSR, and reported, that “managerial ownership has a negative relation with
CSR disclosure, while institutional ownership has a positive relation with CSR disclosure”.
Dyck et al. (2019) [16] also found that the presence of institutional investors in the ownership
structure can have a positive effect on ESG performance. However, negative pieces of
evidence also stand. Aluchna et al. (2022) [12] examined the association between disclosure
of ESG’s social component and prime interest of institutional investors, and stated, “there
was a negative relationship between institutional ownership and disclosure of the social
performance”. They also analyzed the relationship between institutional investor types
and ESG disclosure, classifying these investors into corporate and government pensions,
and discovered that “ownership by type of public pension and private pension showed
statistically insignificant for social disclosure”.
Third, numerous studies have looked at how ESG performance relates to financial
performance. Whether CSR activity improves corporate financial performance in the
literature of slack resource hypothesis and stakeholder theory has long been debated, and
now the question concerning the impact of ESG on financial performance has arisen. This
creates two main arguments for the relationship between ESG/CSR activity and financial
performance. One argument is that they are not correlated with each other because efforts
to improve social performance cause firms to spend more resources, undermining shortterm firm value. The other argument is that they are correlated with one another as a
socially responsible investment can enhance the financial performance of investee firms.
For instance, Orlitzky et al. (2003) [23] insisted that “corporate social/environmental

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

6 of 17

performance is positively related with accounting-based metrics of corporate financial
performance than with market-based indicators”. Brammer et al. (2006) [20] examined “the
association between corporate social performance (CSP) and stock returns in the UK”, and
they reported that “scores on a composite social performance indicator are inversely related
with stock returns”. Revelli and Viviani (2015) [24] explored “the association between
socially responsible investing (SRI) and financial performance to ascertain if incorporating
corporate social responsibility and ethical issues in portfolio management are more lucrative
than conventional investment practices”, and they also stated that “the consideration of CSR
in stock market portfolios is neither a drawback nor a strength compared with traditional
investing”. Friede et al. (2015) [22] conducted a review of the relationship between ESG and
CFP by analyzing 2200 previous studies, and they discovered that 48% of the entire sample
reached a positive conclusion about the relationship. Additionally, they indicated that “11%
of the sample revealed the impact of ESG on CFP to be negative, 23% to be neutral, and
18% to be mixed”. Fatemi et al. (2018) [21] investigated “the interrelationship between
a firm’s strengths and weaknesses with regard to environmental, social, and governance
concerns, its ESG-related disclosure, and its valuation”, and they noted that “ESG strengths
boost company value while weakness diminishes it, and ESG disclosure itself depresses
valuation”.
In previous studies, the impact of institutional investor activism is inconsistent, and
this issue needs to be further investigated. Some researchers [16–18] concluded that
ESG/CSR disclosures offer companies a market premium, which can be of great interest to institutional investors looking for a high return. Rehman et al. (2020) [30] stated that
ESG disclosure decreases the information asymmetry and helps investors to predict the
future earnings and cash flow of the investee firms.
Here, we raise the research question: can ESG performance act as a mediator or
moderator? We specifically anticipate that the outcome of NPF shareholding on financial
performance can be linked indirectly to the enhancement of ESG performance. In addition, the impact of NPF shareholding on financial performance can be reinforced by ESG
performance. Therefore, we note a mediating or moderating role of ESG performance
between NPF’s shareholding and financial performance. By applying path analysis to
test the mediating and moderating effects of ESG performance, we estimate the impact of
NPF shareholding on ESG performance and financial performance. Figure 1 depicts the
conceptual framework.

Figure 1. Conceptual Framework.

A mediating variable usually explains the process by which two variables are related,
whereas a moderating variable influences the strength and direction of that relationship.
ESG performance, in this study, is not only a mediator in Hypothesis 1, but also a moderator
in Hypothesis 2. NPF shareholding, for instance, can influence financial performance via
the mediating role of ESG performance. Furthermore, ESG performance acts upon the
relationship between NPF shareholding and financial performance and may change its

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

7 of 17

direction or intensity. Hence, we developed research hypotheses to investigate whether
ESG performance mediates or moderates the relationship between NPF shareholding and
financial performance.
Hypothesis 1: ESG performance will mediate the relationship between NFP shareholding and
financial performance.
Hypothesis 2: ESG performance will moderate the relationship between NFP shareholding and
financial performance.
3. Research Design
3.1. Data Collection and Sampling
The variables in this study are NPF shareholding, ESG performance, and financial
performance. Data sources include NPF disclosure, ESG portal, and Data-guide. This study
makes use of NPF ownership rate data as well as Korea Corporate Governance Service
(KCGS) ESG ratings. KCGS assigns seven letter grades to ESG management: S, A+, A,
B+, B, C, and D. In addition, Data-guide was used to collect financial information from
companies. The sample was collected in the manner shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Sampling.
2019
Removal
1. KCGS ESG grade from ESG portal

2020
N

Removal

963

Total
N

N

1005

1968

2. Firms without ESG sub-ratings

55

908

55

950

1858

3. Firms in capital impairment and firms not included in Data-guide

6

902

5

945

1847

4. Non-manufacturing Firms

363

539

372

573

1112

573

1112

5. Total

539

The KCGS published its ESG grades in 2020 and 2021, which represent the outcomes
of assessments made in 2019 and 2020, respectively. We began gathering ESG data for
1968 firms based on these grades. A total of 110 firms (55 in 2019, 55 in 2020) with no
ESG sub-ratings were removed. Six firms were eliminated in 2019 and five in 2020 due to
capital impairments or missing data. Additionally, 735 non-manufacturing firms (363 in
2019, 372 in 2020) were also eliminated, and the final sample was 539 firms in 2019 and
573 firms in 2020. The final samples in this study included 1112 manufacturing firms with
year observations from firms listed on the Korea Exchange in the 2019–2020 fiscal year.
3.2. Measurement of Variables
The ESG management grade measures how well a company adheres to its environmental, social, and corporate governance commitments. We chose ESG indicators from
the KCGS that explicitly described the Korean firms and their ecology out of the many
ESG indices available both domestically and internationally to measure the level of ESG
management. ESG grades evaluated by KCGS consist of seven grades from S to D (S, A+, A,
B+, B, C, D). We transformed the ordinal scale to Likert seven scale to test the hypotheses.
For example, we assigned seven points to “S”, six points to “A+”, and one point to “D”. [37].
NPF discloses the ownership rate for the investee company. We drew the ownership rate
from the NPF report. Moreover, we had three dependent variables in our research model:
ROE, ROA, and Tobin q. The first two variables ROE, and ROA are proxies of accounting
performance, and the last variable Tobin q represents a corporate valuation. There are many
variables used to determine a firm’s financial performance, and they can mainly be divided
into “accounting performance” and “market performance”. Accounting performance such
as ROE, and ROA has the advantage of showing the performance of a company’s past

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

8 of 17

activities, and market performance such as Tobin q has the advantage of showing expectations for future performance [38,39]. Therefore, the financial performances, which are
the dependent variables, are grouped with ROE, ROA, and Tobin q to analyze the effects
from various aspects of the sample companies. ROE can specifically show the management
efficiency of capital as it evaluates owner’s equity only excluding debt. Variable ROE is
measured by dividing net income by the owner’s equity and then multiplying it by 100.
ROA shows the management efficiency of total assets. Variable ROA is primarily calculated
by dividing net income by average total assets and multiplying it by 100. Moreover, Tobin
q is the ratio between a physical asset’s market value and its replacement value. Variable
Tobin q in this study was measured by applying Equation (1).
Tobin0 q =

Equity Market Vaule + Liabilities Book Value
× 100
Equity Book Vaule + Liabilities Book Value

(1)

4. Results and Discussion
4.1. Descriptive Statistics
Table 2 shows the distribution of industries in our sample. Chemistry had the highest
distribution with 226 firms (20.3%), followed by electrical and electronic with 156 (14.0%),
and pharmaceuticals with 137 (12.3%).
Table 2. Distribution of industries.
Industry

N

Percentage

Food and beverage

83

7.5

Textile and clothing

47

4.2

Paper and wood

40

3.6

Chemistry

226

20.3

Pharmaceuticals

137

12.3

Non-metallic minerals

52

4.7

Steel metal

96

8.6

Machinery

115

10.3

Electrical and electronic

156

14.0

Medical

18

1.6

Transportation equipment

112

10.1

Other manufacturing

30

2.7

1112

100.0

Total

One vital purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which Korean businesses have implemented ESG practices. Before we verified the hypotheses, we pretested
whether firms with a high financial performance also had a high ESG performance. This allowed us to diagnose the current degree of ESG activity in Korean manufacturing firms and
determine whether or not the sample companies in this research supported earlier discussions, such as the slack resource hypothesis on the relationship between ESG performance
and financial performance.
Table 3 Panel A shows the distribution of ESG grades by year for 1112 samples. In
2019, 134 firms received B+ or higher grades (24.8%), while 406 (75.2%) received B or lower
grades. In 2020, 182 (31.8%) and 390 (68.2%) firms were classified.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

9 of 17

Table 3. Distribution of ESG grade, ROE level, and ROE by ESG grade.
Panel A: ESG Grade Distribution
S

A+

A

B+

B

C

D

Total

0

5

47

82

180

207

19

540
(100.0%)

8

390(68.2%)

572
(100.0%)

2019

134(24.8%)
0

5

2020

87

406(75.2%)
90

182(31.8%)

176

206

Panel B: Distribution of ROE by ESG grade
Classification

Low ROE: ROE19 ≤ 1.77, ROE20 ≤ 2.04

High ROE: ROE19 ≥ 5.10, ROE20 ≥ 5.13

Total

High ESG (ESG ≥ B+)

Group 2 = 105 (11.8%)

Group 1 = 144 (16.2%)

249 (27.9%)

Low ESG (ESG ≤ B)

Group 3 = 342 (38.4%)

Group 4 = 300 (33.7%)

642 (72.1%)

Total

444 (49.8%)

447 (50.2%)

891
(100.0%)

Chi-square test

degree

Pearson Chi-Square

p-value

1

8.846

0.01

Panel C: ESG ROE–population ratio difference test
High ESG ≥B+

Low ESG ≤ B

High ROE

Low ROE

High ROE

Low ROE

Group 1 = 144 (16.2%)

Group 2 = 105 (11.8%)

Group 4 = 300 (33.7%)

Group 3 = 342 (38.4%)

population ratio difference test (H0: p1-p2 = 0)

population ratio difference test

Z = 2.471

Z = 1.657

Two-tail test p-value < 0.01

Two-tail test p-value < 0.05

Group 1: high ROE, high ESG; Group 2: low ROE, high ESG; Group 3: low ROE, low ESG; Group 4: high ROE,
low ESG.

The distribution of ROE by ESG grade is seen in Panel B. It was categorized into four
groups based on ESG grade (”B+”: “B”) and the median of ROE (60th percentile: 40th
percentile). Then, based on the ROE and ESG grades, we could create a 2-by-2 matrix
grade [6]. For example, if ROE was greater than the 60th percentile and the ESG grade is
above or equivalent to B+, the companies were regarded as having good ESG performance
with excellent financial performance. Additionally, if a company was below the 40th
percentile but its ESG grade was B+ or higher, it was categorized to have an outstanding ESG
performance yet a poor financial performance. In this manner, we created four comparison
groups, each labeled as group 1 (high ROE, high ESG), group 2 (low ROE, high ESG),
group 3 (low ROE, low ESG), and group 4 (high ROE, low ESG), respectively. According
to the findings, out of the 249 firms with respectable ESG performance, 144 (16.2%) had
respectable ROE (G1) and 105 (G2) had poor ROE (11.8%). Additionally, out of 642 firms
with poor ESG performance, 342 (38.4%) had poor ROE (G3), and 300 (G4) had high ROE
(33.7%). The Pearson Chi-Square statistic was 8.846 and the p-value was 0.01. As a result,
the null hypothesis was rejected, and we could confirm that there was a statistical difference
between the four groups.
Panel C shows the parent ratio difference for the distribution of ROE and ESG performance. Out of the 249 strong ESG firms, 144 (16.2%) had decent ROE (G1) and 105 (11.8%)
had poor ROE (G2). With a Z-value of 2.471, the difference was statistically significant
(p-value 0.01). Additionally, among the 642 weak ESG firms, there were 342 (38.4%) companies with poor ROE (G3) and 300 (33.7%) companies with reasonable ROE, and the
difference was statistically substantial. The pretest results of this study demonstrated that
ESG management was more prevalent in organizations with high ROE, which may support
the slack resource hypothesis.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

10 of 17

Table 4 displays the correlation between the variables of the study. With the exception
of the pairs involving NPF shareholding and Tobin q, the coefficients for main components
vary from −0.101 to 0.820, and many of the paired variables had significant correlations.
Table 4. Correlations of variables of this study.

1. NPF Shareholding

1

2

3

4

5

1

0.480 ***

0.237 ***

0.206 ***

0.020

1

0.117 ***

0.110 ***

−0.101 ***

1

0.820 ***

0.013

1

0.017

2. ESG performance
3. ROE
4. ROA
5. Tobin q

1

*** Significant at 0.01 level (two-tailed tests).

4.2. Path Analysis Results
We had two hypotheses in this study. The first was to look into the moderating
impact of the interaction variable of NPF shareholding and ESG performance on financial
performance, while the second was to investigate the mediating role of ESG performance
between NPF shareholding and financial performance.
To test the hypotheses of the indirect effect of ESG performance between NPF shareholding and financial performance as well as the interaction effect of NPF shareholding
and ESG performance on financial performance, a path analysis method was used. By
breaking down correlations into direct, indirect, and spurious effects, path analysis allows
for the modeling of several interconnected dependent connections between endogenous
and exogenous components.
We validated the mediating impact of ESG performance in between NPF shareholding
and financial performance by setting three business performance variables such as ROE,
ROA, and Tobin q as dependent variables in our path model, respectively. Additionally,
our path model investigated the moderating impact of the relationship between NPF
shareholding and ESG performance on financial performance.
Table 5 and Figure 2 show the result of each path analysis for the variables such as
NPF shareholding (NPFS), ESG performance (ESGP), the interaction of NPFS and ESGP,
and financial performance (FP).
Table 5. Path coefficients.
Panel A: Model ROE
Path Coefficient

Panel B: Model ROA

Panel C: Model Tobin q

Estimate

t-Value

Estimate

t-Value

Estimate

t-Value

→

ESGP

0.480

16.338 ***

0.480

16.338 ***

0.480

16.338 ***

→

FP

0.172

4.722 ***

0.200

5.665 ***

0.082

2.166 ***

ESGP

→

FP

−0.040

−1.110

−0.068

−1.914 *

−0.155

−4.106 ***

NPFS × ESGP

→

FP

0.258

8.080 ***

0.338

10.922 ***

0.058

1.762 *

NPF shareholding

*** Significant at 0.01 level, * 0.10 respectively (two-tailed tests).

Panel A depicts the outcome of a path analysis with ROE as the dependent variable. We predicted a statistically significant positive sign in all four paths, and among
those four, three paths satisfied the expectation, which were “NPF shareholding and ROE
(coefficient = 0.172, p-value = 0.01)”, “NPF shareholding and ESG performance
(coefficient = 0.480, p-value = 0.01)”, and “’NPFS × ESGP’ and ROE (coefficient = 0.258,
p-value = 0.01)”. However, the path of ESGP and ROE showed a negative relationship
and no statistical significance in the relationship between ESG performance and financial
performance ROE.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

11 of 17

Figure 2. Outcome of path analysis by dependent variables: *** Significant at 0.01 level, ** 0.05,
* 0.10 respectively (two-tailed tests).

We additionally investigated the mediating and moderating effects of major variables
in this study by setting ROA and Tobin q as dependent variables. Panels B and C show the
results of the path analysis, fixing ROA and Tobin q as dependent variables, respectively,
and the results are also depicted in Figure 2. In contrast to the ROE model in panel A, we
were able to confirm that the path coefficients of “ESGP and ROA” (coefficient = −0.068,
p-value = 0.10) and “ESGP and Tobin q” (coefficient = −0.155, p-value = 0.01) were statistically significant with a negative sign, which was contrary to our expectations.
The following are the results of path analysis in this study.
First, we observed that increasing NPF shareholding in investee firms can improve
accounting performance (ROE and ROA) and market value (Tobin q). Second, we confirmed
that a high shareholding of NPF can be a leading indicator to enhance ESG performance.
Third, we discerned that the two variables NPF shareholding and ESG performance had an
interaction effect on financial performance (ROE, ROA, and Tobin q, respectively) and that
all paths in each model showed a positive sign. However, one unexpected finding was that
there may be a negative mediating effect of ESG performance in the relationship between
the NPF shareholding and ROA or Tobin q.
With the path analysis, we were able to confirm the direct consequence of NPF shareholding on ROE or ESG performance, but we were unable to find a mediating effect of
ESG performance between NPF shareholding and ROE. Furthermore, a negative mediation effect of ESG performance was discovered between NPF shareholding and financial
performances (ROA, Tobin q), as well as the interaction effects of the two variables NPF
shareholding and ESG performance on financial performances (ROE, ROA, and Tobin q).
4.3. Discussion
The first two findings of this study are consistent with the results of the existing
literature on the relationship between (i) institutional investor activism and financial
performance ([6,13–15,25], etc.), and (ii) institutional investor activism and ESG
performance ([6,16–19], etc.). These findings reinforce the assumption that institutional
investor activism might improve a company’s financial or ESG performance. As a consequence, positive evidence for the efficacy of the stewardship code was added to the
previously contradicting findings in the literature ([12,28], etc.).
Furthermore, the study’s final two findings add to the previous literature by demonstrating that ESG performance acts as a mediator or moderator between institutional
investor activism and financial performance. The stewardship code’s promotion of ESG
performance was expected to be a driver of improvements in company accounting and
market performance. However, the results showed that ESG performance was a nega-

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

12 of 17

tive mediator in the relationship between institutional investor activism and financial
performance ROA and Tobin q.
The study’s unexpected findings can be interpreted from the two perspectives listed
below. Initially, unlike our assumptions, ESG performance showed a negative mediating
effect in the relationship between NPF shareholding and financial performance ROA or
Tobin q. For example, if the NPF’s shareholding is large, the ESG performance of the
investee companies can improve. However, the improved ESG performance might have
a negative effect on ROA or Tobin q. The mismatch of horizons may provide a plausible
explanation for the observation. In principle, ESG management and investment seek to
improve long-term investment performance by incorporating ESG issues that traditional
investing ignores (ESG investment, more specifically, is an innovation movement that
shifts value maximization from shareholders to stakeholders. With the emphasis on ESG,
companies must now invest resources not only for shareholders, but also for diverse range
of stakeholders in environmental, social, and governance aspects. Moreover, in this case,
such an investment would help maximize stakeholder value while also improving the
company’s financial value. This investment strategy, however, was deemed unimportant in
the shareholder-oriented value maximization strategy. In addition, institutional investors
may prioritize short-term rather than longer-term goals for quarterly earnings fixation,
caused by quarterly reporting requirements, analysts’ prediction of quarterly earnings,
short-term outlook by financial intermediaries, etc. ESG investing can mitigate losses
for investors resulting from short-termism. For instance, ref. [40] provided a portfolio
optimization framework along with empirical evidence to show that investors can improve
both ESG quality and the financial performance of their investments. Investors can achieve
the dual goal by integrating systematic ESG risk into optimization in a manner consistent
with modern portfolio theory”.). Refs. [41,42] showed a piece of evidence in the US equity
market that ESG factor surprise has a higher volatility persistence than market factor
surprise. This implies that hedge costs to reduce ESG risk must be borne immediately,
while benefits from ESG investment can be enjoyed gradually over a long period. For
instance, costs caused by firms expanding in ESG activity may increase in the early stage,
which can temporarily deteriorate corporate financial performance. This is consistent with
the negative correlation in the mediating path between ESG performance and accounting
performance ROE and ROA. The negative sign regarding the long-term market performance
(Tobin q) can be explained through the risk perspective of ESG investing. The ESG activity to
mitigate ESG risk tends to lower the numerator (cash-flows) and the denominator (discount
rate) in the valuation formula. When relevant ESG risk reduction is priced efficiently in the
capital market, ESG performance may be neutral to corporate valuation. However, only
a partial change of total risk (i.e., only the difference in systematic risk) induced by ESG
activity is likely to be priced according to modern portfolio theory [41]. It means that the
discount rate tends to be only somewhat adjusted, and thus the corporate market value is
prone to be lower than its fair value.
Moreover, considering the demands for ESG or the stewardship code of institutional
investors in Korea is only at its beginning stage, it might be a temporary financial situation
in the process of expanding investment in ESG. Since the market may be unable to price risk
factors efficiently [43,44], the performance of ESG screening may have originated from the
market’s inability and depended on the choice of the evaluation period. Ref. [45] showed
the relevant empirical result in the US equity fund market. It suggests that investors have
factored ESG information into their decisions more actively and that the market has become
more efficient concerning ESG risk in the recent period. From this stance, the research
period has to be expanded in order for the effect of the stewardship code by institutional
investors and corporate ESG investment in Korean society to be structurally captured.
However, unfortunately, we could not analyze it due to the relatively short research period
of this study. It remains a future research opportunity.
Second, along with what we expected, the results of this study mean that the more NPF
owns shareholding to investee companies, the higher companies’ financial performance

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

13 of 17

or social performance is expected through ESG activities. The impact of improved ROE
was superior when the interaction effects of NPF shareholding and ESG performance
existed. There was a particularly crucial influence of the variable “NPFS × ESGP” on
financial performance, which reveals that the interaction between institutional investors’
stewardship code and corporate ESG performance can have a positive impact on financial
performance (ROE, ROA, and Tobin q). This is evidence that aids the role of moderating
effect in the current study.
Bénabou and Tirole (2010) [46] addressed three versions of CSR: the long-term perspective to maximizing intertemporal profits, shareholder delegation philanthropy, and inside
manager-initiated philanthropy. The first two versions can enhance corporate value, but the
last version can harm it. Since CSR is likely to involve a combination of all three samples,
the result of the empirical test is expected to depend on the sample. The adverse mediating
effect in Table 5 implies the probability that inside manager-initiated philanthropy drives
recent ESG performance in the Korean manufacturing industry. On the other hand, NPF
shareholding may contribute to monitoring managers’ strategic behaviors and discourage
inside manager-initiated philanthropy. Likewise, as the NPF shareholding is more elevated,
the correlation between ESG performance and financial performance can be more positive.
Furthermore, as a universal investor, NPF focuses on systematic risk rather than total risk.
Thus, it may only consider the partial benefit of ESG screening when making investment
decisions. This interpretation is compatible with the positive moderating effect shown in
Table 5. Note that the correlation between ESG performance and market presentation (Tobin
q) is lower than the correlation between ESG performance and accounting performance
(ROE and ROA).
Additionally, we analyzed what kind of interaction causes a more synergetic effect on financial performance. We diagnosed financial performance in each of the four groups—high
and low levels in NPF shareholding and ESG performance. The two groups were divided
according to the median NPF shareholding. If the NPF shareholding was greater than the
median, the firm was classified as having a large NPF shareholding; if it was less than the
median, the firm was classified as having a small NPF shareholding. ESG performance was
organized based on the ESG index, so if the index was greater than or equal to B+, the firm
was regarded as having a good ESG performance. Based on NPF’s shareholding and ESG
performance, we could make a 2-by-2 matrix.
To compare the four groups, ANOVA and post hoc analysis were performed. The
results of the analysis are shown in Table 6 and Figure 3.
The results of the ANOVA are shown in Panel A. Group 1 (high NPF and high ESG)
has the highest average 6.96, and it is followed by Group 4 (high NPF and low ESG = 5.27),
Group 2 (low NPF and high ESG = −3.41), and Group 3 (low NPF and low ESG = −6.59).
However, the heteroscedasticity between the groups was indicated by the Levene statistic
of 11.389 and the p-value of 0.01. To solve the heteroscedasticity issue and validate the
group differences, Dunnett T3 analysis was included. The outcome is shown in panel B.
The results demonstrate that group 1 had a higher ROE than groups 2, 3, and 4, with the
only difference between groups 1 and 2 or 1 and 3 being significant at the 1% level. In terms
of ROE, Group 2 outperformed Group 3, and Group 4 outperformed Group 3.
Panel C demonstrates the ANOVA and post-hoc analysis of the four groups by setting
the dependent variable as ROA or Tobin q. We will briefly present the results. In terms
of ROA as the dependent variable, we confirmed that the difference between G1 and G2,
G3, or G4 and G2, G3 were significant. For Tobin q, the difference between G1 and G4, or
G4 and G2 were significant. This may be evidence that the stewardship code of Korean
NPF is effective, and that its emphasis on ESG activities of investee firms can improve
their financial performance. Moreover, we highlighted the fact that G1 was larger than G4,
despite the fact that the difference between groups was not statistically substantial. This
means when NPF enlarges its ESG investment, the financial performance of investee firms
can increase. We, unfortunately, could not find a reasonable analogy for the difference
between G1 and G4. We believe it to be another future investigation of this field.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

14 of 17

Table 6. ANOVA and Post-hoc analysis.
Panel A: Findings from the ANOVA on the FP (ROE)
Group

N (=891)

Mean

S.D.

G1

232

6.96

9.64

G2

304

−3.41

33.06

G3

291

−6.59

26.23

G4

64

5.27

23.37

SS

degree

MS

BG

28105.88

3

9368.62

WG

586958.21

887

661.732

F

p

14.158

0.01

Levene Static = 11.389, p = 0.01
Panel B: Findings from the Post-hoc analysis
G(I)

G(J)

MD(I-J)

p-value

1

2
3
4

10.37
13.55
1.69

0.01
0.01
0.94

2

3
4

3.18
−8.68

0.01
0.08

3

4

−11.86

0.01

Dunnett T3

Panel C: Summary ROA and Tobin q results
FP = ROA: G1 > (G2, G3), G4> (G2, G3),
FP = Tobin q: G1 > G4, G4> G2
(1) G1: high NPF, high ESG, G2: low NPF, high ESG, G3: low NPF, low ESG, G4: high NPF, low ESG

Figure 3. Four groups comparison.

5. Conclusions
Despite the increased interest in stewardship codes and socially responsible investments of companies, there has been little interest in exploring the association between institutional investors’ activism and ESG and financial performance. So, this study examined
the relationship between NPF shareholding, ESG performance, and financial performance.
We primarily focused on the role of ESG performance as a mediator or a moderator in the
relationship between NPF shareholding and financial performance.
We found that ESG performance can play a mediating and moderating role in the
relationship between NPF shareholding and financial performance, and this study makes
two significant contributions to the literature.
First, NPF shareholding can have affirmative effects on ESG performance, or financial
performance, but ESG performance shows a negative effect on financial performance. In
other words, if institutional investor promotes their stewardship code actively, the ESG
performance of investee firms can be enhanced. However, ESG performance augmented
by institutional activism did not relate to the improvement of financial performance. We
expected a positive mediating effect of ESG performance being promoted by institutional
investors’ activism on financial performance, yet the discoveries of the current study

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

15 of 17

surprisingly showed a negative impact. One possible inference regarding this result is that
corporate expense temporarily increased while they promoted ESG activities, so corporate
financial performance decreased. From this perspective, we suggest expanding the research
period to diagnose whether the result is a temporary phenomenon or not. We could not
expand the investigation period in Korea, as the national pension fund just acted up their
stewardship code merely two years ago; thus, it will remain as future work.
Second, ESG performance showed a moderating role in the relationship between NPF
shareholding and financial performance. This means if the national pension fund has more
ownership rate for investee firms, financial performance can be greater when moderated
by ESG performance. This proves that the interaction between institutional investors’
activism and ESG performance may have a synergetic effect on financial performance, so
we further explored which groups’ interaction (NPFS×ESGP) showed a stronger synergetic
impact on financial performance. From this deeper research, we found that when both NPF
shareholding and ESG performance were superior to other groups, investee firms’ financial
performance was also elevated.
This study improved our understanding of the institutional investor stewardship code
and the degree of ESG practice for Korean manufacturing firms, as well as the causality
of those variables with financial performance. The contribution of the current study is to
confirm that the stewardship code by the national pension fund in Korea that promotes
ESG performance is indeed efficient and that the synergetic effect of investor activism with
ESG performance on financial performance is also respectable.
This study has the following limitations.
The first limitation of this study is in the short research period, but we were unable
to expand it because Korea’s national pension fund only implemented its stewardship
code two years ago. One possible explanation for the negative relationship between ESG
performance and financial performance is the short implementation period of the NPF
stewardship code. Given that NPF adopted it just two years ago, stakeholder enthusiasm or
expectations may not be fully reflected in the relationship. Despite the short study period,
we believe that diagnosing the NPS stewardship code, as well as the level of ESG in the
Korean manufacturing industry will be a worthwhile task given the growing interest in ESG
and institutional investors’ stewardship code fueled by the merger of Samsung C&T and
Cheil Industries or Korean Air’s peanut turnaround. However, because of the short study
period, caution should be exercised when generalizing the study’s findings. Extending the
study period and incorporating control variables, such as contingency variables, into our
model will also provide an intriguing opportunity for future research.
Second, we could not control the pandemic event in the research design. Another
possible reason for the negative correlation between ESG performance and financial performance is the impact of the transformed corporate business environment caused by the
pandemic. Hence, it will be valuable to trace the reason relating to the negative influence of
ESG performance on financial performance. It will be a worthwhile opportunity to explore
whether or not it can have positive consequences with an ongoing active stewardship code
by an institutional investor.
Third, because this study was conducted in a single institutional pension fund in
Korea, we must exercise caution when generalizing our findings. In the future, we believe
it would be a good challenge to broaden the study scope by including several institutional
investors and several countries as well as broadening the research period.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, S.S., I.J. and J.K; methodology, S.S.; investigation, S.S., I.J.
and J.K.; resources, S.S., I.J. and J.K.; writing—original draft preparation, S.S.; writing—review and
editing, I.J. and J.K.; supervision, J.K.; project administration, S.S. All authors have read and agreed
to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

16 of 17

Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Glass, L.; Newig, J. Governance for achieving the sustainable development goals: How important are participation, policy
coherence, reflexivity, adaptation and democratic institutions? Earth Syst. Gov. 2019, 2, 100031. [CrossRef]
Jabareen, Y. A new conceptual framework for sustainable development. Environ. Dev. Sustain. 2008, 10, 179–192. [CrossRef]
Manioudis, M.; Meramveliotakis, G. Broad strokes towards a grand theory in the analysis of sustainable development: A return
to the classical political economy. New Political Econ. 2022, 27, 866–878. [CrossRef]
United Nations General Assembly. Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; United Nations General
Assembly: New York, NY, USA, 2015.
Sauve, S.; Berbard, S.; Sloan, P. Environmental sciences, sustainable development and circular economy: Alternative concepts for
trans-disciplinary research. Environ. Dev. 2016, 17, 48–56. [CrossRef]
Son, S.; Kim, J. Environment, social, and governance performance and financial performance with national pension fund:
Evidence from Korea. Front. Psychol. 2022, 13, 893535. [CrossRef]
Denoncourt, J. Companies and UN 2030 Sustainable development goal 9 industry, innovation and infrastructure. J. Corp. Law
Stud. 2020, 20, 199–235. [CrossRef]
Klettner, A. The impact of stewardship codes on corporate governance and sustainability. N. Z. Bus. Law Q. 2017, 23, 259–275.
Klettner, A. Stewardship codes and the role of institutional investors in corporate governance: An international comparison and
typology. Br. J. Manag. 2021, 32, 988–1006. [CrossRef]
Tilba, A.; Reisberg, A. Fiduciary duty under the microscope: Stewardship and the spectrum of pension fund engagement. Mod.
Law Rev. 2019, 82, 456–487. [CrossRef]
Suttipun, M. The influence of board composition on environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosure of Thai listed
companies. Sustainability 2021, 18, 391–402. [CrossRef]
Aluchna, M.; Roszkowska-Menkes, M.; Kamińsi, B.; Bosek-Rak, D. Do institutional investors encourage firm to social disclosure?
The stakeholder salience perspective. J. Bus. Res. 2022, 142, 674–682. [CrossRef]
Becht, M.; Franks, J.; Mayer, C.; Rossi, S. Returns to shareholder activism: Evidence from a clinical study of the hermes UK focus
fund. Rev. Financ. Stud. 2009, 22, 3093–3129. [CrossRef]
Buchanan, B.G.; Netter, J.M.; Poulsen, A.B.; Yang, T. Shareholder proposal rules and practice: Evidence from a comparison of the
United States and United Kingdom. Am. Bus. Law J. 2012, 49, 739–803. [CrossRef]
Farooqi, J.; Jory, S.; Ngo, T. Institutional investors’ activism and credit ratings. J. Econ. Financ. 2017, 41, 51–77. [CrossRef]
Dyck, A.; Lins, K.V.; Roth, L.; Wagner, H.F. Do institutional investors drive corporate social responsibility? International evidence.
J. Financ. Econ. 2019, 131, 693–714. [CrossRef]
Kim, Y.J.; An, J.I. The effect of national pension blockholders on corporate social responsibility. Korean Account. Rev. 2018, 43,
1–31. [CrossRef]
Nurleni, N.; Bandang, A.; Darmawati, J.; Amiruddin. The effect of managerial and institutional ownership on corporate social
responsibility disclosure. Int. J. Law Manag. 2018, 60, 979–987. [CrossRef]
Routledge, J. Stewardship regulation and earnings quality: Evidence from Japan. Account. Res. J. 2020, 33, 543–559. [CrossRef]
Brammer, S.; Brooks, C.; Pavelin, S. Corporate social performance and stock UK evidence from disaggregate measures. Financ.
Manag. 2006, 35, 97–116. [CrossRef]
Fatemi, A.; Glaum, M.; Kaiser, S. ESG performance and firm value: The moderating role of disclosure. Glob. Financ. J. 2018, 38,
45–64. [CrossRef]
Friede, G.; Bushc, T.; Bassen, A. ESG and financial performance: Aggregated evidence from more than 2000 empirical studies.
J. Sustain. Financ. Investig. 2015, 5, 210–233. [CrossRef]
Orlitzky, M.; Schmidt, F.F.; Rynes, S.L. Corporate social and financial performance: A meta-analysis. Organ. Study 2003, 24,
403–441. [CrossRef]
Revelli, C.; Viviani, J.L. Financial performance of socially responsible investing (SRI): What have we learned? A meta-analysis.
Bus. Ethics 2015, 24, 158–185. [CrossRef]
Mehrani, S.; Moradi, M.; Eskandar, H. Institutional ownership type and earnings quality: Evidence from Iran. Emerg. Mark.
Financ. Trade 2017, 53, 54–73. [CrossRef]
Sohn, S. The relation between financial characteristics and economic performances in Korean CSR companies: Comparative
analysis for contextual factors. Korean J. Manag. Account. Res. 2016, 16, 201–240.
Waddock, S.; Graves, S. The corporate social performance-financial performance link. Strateg. Manag. J. 1997, 18, 303–319.
[CrossRef]
Gillan, S.L.; Starks, L.T. The evolution of shareholder activism in the United States. J. Appl. Corp. Financ. 2007, 19, 55–73.
[CrossRef]

Sustainability 2022, 14, 11788

29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

17 of 17

Friedman, M. The social responsibility of business is to increase its 75 profits. New York Times Magazine, 13 September 1970;
Volume 32, pp. 122–126.
Rehman, R.; Riaz, Z.; Cullinan, C.; Zhang, J.; Wang, F. Institutional ownership and value relevance of corporate social responsibility
disclosure: Empirical evidence from China. Sustainability 2020, 12, 2311. [CrossRef]
National Pension Fund. Statistics of National Pension Fund; National Pension Service: Jeonju, Korea, 2019.
Hill, J.G. Good activist/bad activist: The rise of international stewardship codes. Seattle Univ. Law Rev. 2017, 41, 497.
BlackRock. 2020 Annual Report; BlackRock: New York, NY, USA, 2020.
Pástor, L.; Stambaugh, R.F.; Taylor, L.T. Sustainable investing in equilibrium. J. Financ. Econ. 2021, 142, 550–571. [CrossRef]
Sparkes, R.; Cowton, C.J. The maturing of socially responsible investment: A review of the developing link with corporate social
responsibility. J. Bus. Ethics 2004, 52, 45–57. [CrossRef]
Preston, E.; O’Bannon, P. The corporate social-financial performance relationship: A typology and analysis. Bus. Soc. 1997, 36,
419–429. [CrossRef]
Wright, B.D. Solving measurement problems with the Rasch model. J. Educ. Meas. 1977, 14, 97–116. [CrossRef]
Buallay, A. Is sustainability reporting (ESG) associated with performance? Evidence from the European banking sector. Manag.
Environ. Qual. 2018, 30, 98–115. [CrossRef]
Velte, P. Does ESG performance have an impact on financial performance? Evidence from Germany. J. Glob. Responsib. 2017, 8,
169–178. [CrossRef]
Jin, I. Systematic ESG risk and decision criteria for optimal portfolio selection. J. Portf. Manag. Novel Risks 2022, 1–20. [CrossRef]
Jin, I. Is ESG a systematic risk factor for US equity mutual funds? J. Sustain. Financ. Investig. 2018, 8, 72–93. [CrossRef]
Jin, I. Systematic ESG risk and passive ESG investing. J. Portf. Manag. 2022, 48, 71–86. [CrossRef]
Haugen, R.A.; Baker, N.L. Commonality in the determinants of expected stock returns. J. Financ. Econ. 1996, 41, 401–439.
[CrossRef]
Lakonishok, J.; Shleifer, A.; Vishny, R. Contrarian investment, extrapolation and risk. J. Financ. 1994, 49, 1541–1578. [CrossRef]
Jin, I. ESG-screening and factor-risk-adjusted performance: The concentration level of screening does matter. J. Sustain. Financ.
Investig. 2020, 1–21. [CrossRef]
Bénabou, R.; Tirole, J. Individual and corporate social responsibility. Economica 2010, 77, 1–19. [CrossRef]

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction
prohibited without permission.

